---
title: "banking woes and worries"
date: 2007-02-04
---

Over at Boingboing, Cory Doctorow has <a href="http://www.boingboing.net/2007/02/03/ripoff\_visamastercar.html">discovered to his horror that Banks and Credit Card companies take a little advantage of you when you use your card abroad</a>; they charge a 3 to 5 percent 'transaction fee' whenever you buy anything. I discovered this when I used my MasterCard for the first time over here; what do you know, it was also the last time I used it over here. <P>Since then, I have more or less gone entirely cardless in Russia, instead taking small sums of cash out of the ATMs here through my credit union. The credit union charges a $1 transaction for each withdrawl and that is it; no percentages and no huge fees like at Bank of America, etc. Through most ATMs here you can get not only roubles, but dollars or euros, whatever your pleasure. <P>I like the quote at the end that sums it all up for me, and most of the Americans on the Alfa Fellowship: <P><code>Truly American credit unions are a savior in a land of high fee thief banks. The idea that people can gather together and work in a non-profit way to make their lives better is a model that others needing essentials services should emulate. If America isn't going to offer universal healthcare for it's citizens then they should band together and make non-profit health care insurance unions. If there's one area of life that needs a non-profit union of citizens more than banking it's definitely health care.</code> <P>In short, if you're coming to Russia for a while, check out opening an account at <a href="https://www.usaa.com/inet/ent\_logon/Logon">USAA</a> or another credit union and using that for most of your banking, instead of a CitiBank clone.
